# pruebas-angular

## Step 1: Install Angular CLI

Angular CLI (Command Line Interface) is a command-line tool that makes it easy to create and manage Angular projects. Open your terminal and run the following command to install Angular CLI globally:
```
npm install -g @angular/cli
```

Once the installation is complete, verify that Angular CLI has been installed successfully by running the following command:
```
ng version
```


## Step 2: Create a New Project

Now that you have Angular CLI installed, you can create a new Angular project. Run the following command in your terminal:
```
ng new my-angular-project
```
This will create a new directory named “my-angular-project” and generate the initial project structure.



## Step 3: Navigate to the Project Directory

Enter the newly created project directory by using the following command:
```
cd my-angular-project
```


## Step 4: Start the Development Server

Once you’re inside the project directory, run the following command to start the Angular development server:
```
ng serve
```
This will compile your project and run it on a local server. Open your web browser and navigate to http://localhost:4200. You should see your Angular application up and running.


## Step 5: Create a Component

Components are the fundamental building blocks in Angular. You can create a component using the following command:
```
ng generate component component-name
```
This will automatically generate the necessary files for your new component, including the TypeScript file, HTML template, and CSS styling file.


## Step 6: Configure Routes
Routes allow you to navigate between different components in your application. To configure routes, open the app-routing.module.ts file and add the following code:
```
import { NgModule } from '@angular/core';
import { Routes, RouterModule } from '@angular/router';
import { HomeComponent } from './home/home.component';
import { AboutComponent } from './about/about.component';
```

```
const routes: Routes = [
  { path: '', component: HomeComponent },
  { path: 'about', component: AboutComponent },
];
@NgModule({
  imports: [RouterModule.forRoot(routes)],
  exports: [RouterModule]
})
export class AppRoutingModule { }
```

This will configure routes for two components: “HomeComponent” and “AboutComponent”. Make sure to create these components and their corresponding templates accordingly.


## Step 7: Add Content to Components

Now you can add content to your newly created components. Open the component files (component-name.component.ts, component-name.component.html, and component-name.component.css) and customize them as per your needs. You can add text, images, links, and more.


## Step 8: Run the Application

Once you have finished adding content to your components, save the files and go back to your terminal. Make sure the Angular development server is still running. If not, run the following command again:
```
ng serve
```

Then, open your browser and visit http://localhost:4200. You should see your Angular application with the components and routes you have created.


## Summary and Recommendations

In this article, you learned how to create an Angular project from scratch. We covered the fundamental steps, from installing Angular CLI to configuring routes and creating components. Here are a few final recommendations:
- Familiarize yourself with the file structure generated by Angular CLI. It will help you organize your project efficiently.
- Explore the official Angular documentation (https://angular.io) to learn more about the framework’s features and capabilities.
- Practice building different components and experiment with various Angular functionalities.


source: [Angular Article installation](https://medium.com/@dgongoragamboa/how-to-create-an-angular-project-from-scratch-b4031abeb4de)

**To comment a section: Shift + Option + A
